

Telecommunications  (Agenda Item 5)

7.         This Agenda item was discussed in Plenary and further
consultations were carried on in a Telecommunications Group
chaired by Dr John Boyd (Australia).  Copies of the SCAR Working
Group on Logistics "Antarctic Telecommunications Guidance
Manual" (SCARCOM) were circulated.  Appreciation was expressed
to SCAR and the Australian Antarctic Division for the
considerable work that had gone into the preparation of
SCARCOM.  It was accepted that the continuing usefulness of
SCARCOM depended on it being kept up to date.  The offer of the
Australian Antarctic Division to continue to maintain the manual
pending consideration by SCAR of its long term maintenance was
noted with appreciation.  Since the necessary information for
this purpose was in the hands of national Antarctic programs it
was considered appropriate that SCAR consult with them as to how
updating might best be achieved.

8.         Two points were considered in connection with the
adoption by some national Antarctic programs, since 1979, of
satellite communications.  First, it was suggested that national
Antarctic programs which had not adopted satellite
communications should be able to learn from the experience of
those that had.  Secondly, concern was expressed that the
widespread adoption of satellite communications by national
Antarctic programs might affect communications between
stations.  Attention was drawn to the increasing shipping and
aircraft activity in the Antarctic, to the need for point to
point communications to support such activity and to the need to
ensure that an adequate capability existed for communication
between stations to cope with emergency situations.  In order to
meet these concerns it was felt that a workshop could be the
best mechanism, possibly convened by SCAR in the context of a

5.

meeting of the SCAR Working Group on Logistics rather than as a
Meeting of Experts under the auspices of the Antarctic Treaty.
It was recognised that such a workshop could also provide an
opportunity to consider the matter of how best to ensure the
regular updating of SCARCOM.

9.     The reactivation of the WMO Executive Committee Working
Group on Antarctic Meteorology was warmly welcomed by all
Consultative Parties.  Appreciation was especially expressed for
the manner in which the Meeting on Antarctic Data
Telecommunication Arrangements had explored the difficulties
involved in ensuring that the inherent peculiarities of
Antarctic meteorological data could be adequately handled within
the Global Telecommunications System.  It was felt to be
appropriate that further work in this field, along lines already
identified in the Final Report of that meeting, should be
encouraged through the Permanent Representatives of Consultative
Parties with WMO.

10.     It was recognised that further work needed to be done on
the matter of requirements for raw and processed meteorological
data.  It was noted that while any national Antarctic program
should be able to state what data it wanted to receive, the
ability of stations from which data had been requested to
provide it would inevitably be subject to constraints.  It was
therefore felt that a revised statement of requirements should
reflect not only what data was wanted but also what could be
provided.