

Sites of Special Scientific Interest (Agenda Item 7)

20. The Meeting considered a draft Recommendation by Chile, Argentina and the UK embodying a proposal for the designation of a Site of Special Scientific Interest at South Bay, Doumer Island in the Palmer Archipelago. The proposal and a management plan for the site has been considered and supported at the Seventeenth Meeting of SCAR. The site is partly terrestrial and partly marine.

21. It was agreed that any proposal for marine Sites of Special Scientific Interest should be carefully examined in the light of Article VI of the Antarctic Treaty and other factors.

22. The Meeting noted that the management plan, as amended, specified that the passage of vessels into, in and through the area would not be affected and that the restrictions placed on vessels (namely that bottom trawling, dumping of waste and anchoring should be avoided except in compelling circumstances) were of a limited kind.

10.

23.      The Meeting also noted, however, that at the Tenth
Consultative Meeting consideration of other Sites of Special
Scientific Interest in the marine environment (Chile Bay,
Greenwich Island and marine areas adjacent to SSSI No. 8,
Admiralty Bay, King George Island) had been deferred for future
consideration.  Noting that at previous meetings proposals for
such sites which included marine areas had not been approved, it
was agreed to defer the making of a decision at this meeting
pending further study.  It was therefore agreed that further
consideration of such SSSI's should be deferred until such time
as offices responsible for Antarctic programs had proposed to
SCAR, and SCAR had approved, SSSI's partly or wholly in the
marine environment.  In this context particular attention was
drawn to the criteria for the designation of any SSSI contained
in operative paragraphs 1(a)(i) and (ii) of Recommendation
VIII-3.

24.      Until such time as this matter might be considered at a
future Consultative Meeting or until June 1988, whichever came
earlier, it was agreed that offices responsible for Antarctic
programs operating in the vicinity of South Bay, Doumer Island
should be asked to draw the attention of their ship masters to
the scientific work proceeding in South Bay and to the draft
management plan reproduced at Annex B to this Report.

25.      It was noted that the designation of Site Numbers 1, 2,
3, 4, 5 and 6 would expire on 30 June 1985;  that the
designation of Site No. 8 would expire on 31 March 1985, before
the probable date of the Thirteenth Consultative Meeting;  and
that the designation of Site No. 7 as a Site of Special
Scientific Interest expired on 30 June 1983.  The United States
Delegate circulated for information a message recently received
from the President of SCAR, Dr James Zumberge, stating that SCAR
had not yet reviewed whether such designations should be allowed
to lapse or should be extended, that such a review would be
conducted by SCAR and the results presented at the next

11.

Consultative Meeting, and that the Conservation Sub-Committee of
the SCAR Working Group on Biology requested the Consultative
Parties to extend the designation of these sites of Special
Scientific Interest until the next Consultative Meeting, when an
informal decision could be made. Accordingly, Recommendation
XII-5 extends the expiration date of the designations of Site
Numbers 1-8 until 31 December 1985, which would be after the
conclusion of the Thirteenth Consultative Meeting.

26. The Parties recognised that the designation of Site No. 7
had already expired and that Recommendation XII-5 might not be
formally approved and become effective, pursuant to Article IX-4
of the Treaty, until after the expiration dates of Site Numbers
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8. Therefore, it was agreed that, in the
interim, the Parties would voluntarily observe the management
plans for these sites.