

Tourism and non-Governmental Expeditions (Agenda Item 8)

27. The Meeting discussed the implications of the increase of
tourism and non-governmental expeditions in Antarctica. It was
agreed that the isolation of the region meant that assistance by
national programs to such activities was expensive, disruptive
to research programs and sometimes hazardous to life and
equipment.

28. The Meeting agreed that emergency assistance was a
humanitarian obligation, but that the risks and costs involving
other assistance in Antarctica might best be reduced by
Consultative Parties' urging upon private expeditions and tour
operators the need for careful and thorough planning and for
self-sufficiency in their operations. In accordance with
Article X of the Antarctic Treaty, the Meeting emphasized the
importance of ensuring that non-governmental expeditions to the
Antarctic Treaty area observed the principles and purposes of
the Antarctic Treaty and the relevant measures adopted under

12.

it. To this end it was agreed that Consultative Parties should
do their best to ensure that such expeditions were made aware of
these provisions. It also agreed that Consultative Parties
should keep each other fully informed about commercial or
private expeditions being planned in their countries.

29. It was noted that non-governmental expeditions and tour
operators should be covered by adequate insurance and by some
form of guarantee that would demonstrate their responsibility
for their activities. A view was also expressed that
responsibility for compliance by non-governmental expeditions
with the provisions of the Antarctic Treaty and Recommendations
adopted at the Consultative Meetings should be placed upon those
States whose physical or juridical persons organize such
expeditions or participate in them. Since there was no
agreement as to where responsibility for non-governmental
expeditions should lie, the draft Recommendation which had been
tabled was withdrawn.

30. It was agreed that the ideas expressed in the previous
paragraphs might be followed up and that further consideration
be given to them at the Thirteenth Consultative Meeting.