

Observers (Agenda Item 12)

38.  Not all States which are Contracting Parties to the
Antarctic Treaty are entitled to appoint representatives to
participate in Consultative Meetings. Non-Consultative Parties,
like all Contracting Parties, have rights and obligations under
the Antarctic Treaty and are, as Parties, bound to carry out its
provisions and uphold its purposes and principles, and to
maintain and strengthen that Treaty. The Consultative Parties
therefore invited non-Consultative Parties to this Consultative

15.

Meeting and welcomed their attendance: it assisted the
deliberations of the Consultative Parties, helped to keep
non-Consultative Parties informed about activities under the
Treaty, and furthered the common aim of all Contracting Parties
to develop and strengthen the operation of the Antarctic Treaty
system.

39. For these reasons, the representatives of the
Consultative Parties endorsed the attendance of non-Consultative
Parties at the next regular Consultative Meeting. They
therefore decided to invite the non-Consultative Parties to the
Thirteenth Consultative Meeting, as well as to its Preparatory
Meeting. Draft Rules of Procedure incorporating the necessary
amendments were prepared by the Meeting, and will be referred to
Governments for their consideration on the clear understanding
that this would not affect the right of Special Consultative
Meetings, as Meetings held pursuant to Article IX of the
Antarctic Treaty, to adopt their own Rules of Procedure.
Consultative Parties which have not indicated their views by 1
April 1984 will be taken to have accepted the text. If any
government requests that the matter be discussed further, the
Australian Government will either pursue the matter through
diplomatic channels or will refer the draft Rules of Procedure
to the preparatory meeting for the Thirteenth Consultative
Meeting.

40. Since there was a close relationship between subjects to
be discussed at special Consultative Meetings and attendance at
those Meetings, the Meeting decided that the question of
attendance at future Special Consultative Meetings could be
decided only when such Meetings were being convened. As regards
the Fourth Special Consultative Meeting, the Meeting took note
of the wish of several of the non-Consultative Parties that they
should be invited to attend future sessions. The Meeting was of
the view that attendance at the Fourth Special Consultative
Meeting, representation at which had been determined in 1981,
was a matter to be decided by that Meeting.

16.

41.     A statement by Non-Consultative Parties is at Annex C.

42.     There was a full discussion of the extent to which, in
the light of paragraph 2 of Article III of the Antarctic Treaty,
the attendance of appropriate international organisations at
regular Consultative Meetings might assist the Consultative
Parties.  The Meeting concluded that, as part of the preparation
for each regular Consultative Meeting, the Consultative Parties
should consider whether the Consultative Parties would be
assisted in their discussion of any item of the agenda of the
regular Consultative Meeting if a Specialised Agency of the
United Nations or other international organisation having a
scientific or technical interest in Antarctica were to attend
the Meeting as an observer when that item was being discussed;
and, if so, whether the relevant organisation should, with the
agreement of all Consultative Parties, be invited by the host
government to attend the Meeting on that basis.