

Operation of the Antarctic Treaty System, and Public
Availability of the Documents of the Consultative Meetings
(Agenda Items 10 and 11)

32.     The delegation of Chile presented a systematic survey of
practical suggestions which - in time - might be considered by
the Consultative Parties in order to deal with the expanding
scope of international co-operation and interest in Antarctica.
There was general appreciation of the Chilean presentation,
which it was agreed could be considered also at the Thirteenth
Consultative Meeting.

33.     The inter-relationship between Agenda Item 10 and the
following Items 11, 12 and 13 was noted by several delegations.
However, for practical reasons, it was decided to convene a
Working Group under the chairmanship of Mr R. Trolle Andersen of
Norway for the consideration of Items 10 and 11 together.

34.     Consensus was reached on Recommendation XII-6 which
broadens the circulation of the Reports of regular Consultative
Meetings, as well as securing a continuous updating of, and the
inclusion of an explanatory introduction and prefaces in, the
"Handbook of Measures in Furtherance of the Principles and
Objectives of the Antarctic Treaty", renamed the "Handbook of
the Antarctic Treaty". In regard to the transmission of a copy
of the Final Report of the Meeting to the United Nations
Secretary-General, it was agreed that the question of whether he
be asked to circulate the report to member countries should be
left to the Consultative Parties' Missions in New York. In
addition, the Recommendation registers further progress with
regard to the public availability of documents. It also invites
the Depositary Government to examine the question of identifying
and cataloguing publicly available information about the
Antarctic Treaty System, and of the sources from which it may be
obtained.

14.

35.  The possibility of further disseminating general
knowledge of the Antarctic Treaty System through the future
elaboration of an extensive report - a White Book - on the
history and achievements of the Antarctic Treaty was discussed.
It was agreed that the matter would require further study, and
that it should be considered at the Thirteenth Consultative
Meeting.

36.  It was agreed that there was a practical need for the
host Government of a Consultative Meeting to continue to act as
co-ordinator for matters of common interest to the Consultative
Parties from the conclusion of one Consultative Meeting until
the Preparatory Meeting for the next. The Contracting Parties
expressed their appreciation to the Government of Australia for
its offer to accept this task until the next Preparatory Meeting
in 1985. It was agreed that the establishment of a more
permanent infrastructure to undertake these tasks would be
premature at the present time, but that the matter, together
with the question of frequency of meetings, should be discussed
further at the Thirteenth Consultative Meeting.

37.  It was agreed that "The Operation of the Antarctic Treaty
System" should be included on the Agenda of the Thirteenth
Consultative Meeting.